[Noel] It's bread week...
I do like bread.
[Noel] ...with a classic
British signature...
Come on, please. Please.
[Noel] ...a tasty takeaway Technical.
Oh, that's no good.
[Noel] ...and gigantic Showstoppers...
[Dan groans]
-[Noel] ...which will push the bakers...
-[beeping]
Got fingers crossed.
[Noel] ...to the limit.
[Rahul] The inside me
is just like a pressure cooker,
can burst anytime.
[theme music playing]
-Sandi, why didn't you say?
-Say what?
That you're in pain.
This is a clear cry for help.
Don't worry, I am there for you.
Yeah, but that's very kind--
No, don't say another word.
I'm gonna get you a chair
and make you a salad.
Thank you.
Actually it's Bread Week
and I was gonna give a little talk about
different kinds of European bread.
This is the, uh, French word for bread--
-Sandi, got you a chair.
-Hmm?
Thanks.
-There you go.
-I feel much better.
-Of course, you do. You know why?
-Hmm?
'Cause you and I communicate.
Yes.
[indistinct chattering]
I'm excited. It's Bread Week.
Bread's my thing,
so I really feel pressure to do well.
[Dan] Paul is the expert on bread.
Nothing is gonna slip past him,
so, yeah, it's a little bit scary.
I can already see his face
poking and prodding away.
Ah, man. No, I'm not gonna
think about it. It'll be fine.
[Briony] Last week
didn't go particularly well.
I'm not gonna cry this week.
I hope I'm not gonna cry. [laughs]
[Rahul] Star Baker last week,
which was really good
but I think every time you come back here
it just give you a little bit, like,
"Oh, I'm gonna feel sick."
Do the French
make the best bread in the world?
Yes, they do.
I mean,
I think so.
[laughs]
Hello, bakers,
and welcome to the traditional
theme of week three,
the one with absolutely
no pressure from Paul.
It's Bread Week.
[Noel chuckles] Oh, dear.
I'm imagining it's gonna be
handshakes all round.
[all laughing]
Today Paul and Prue would love you
to do your take
on the classic Chelsea bun.
[Sandi] You must produce 12 sweet buns
using any flavour, filling
or decoration that you wish
but the buns must be baked
with their sides touching.
They have to be presented still attached
so that Paul and Prue can tear one off
for judging.
-That just doesn't sound right, does it?
-Sounded violent.
[Sandi] Okay. You've got three hours
for your Signature challenge.
-On your marks...
-Get set...
Bake.
We are back. Absolute full energy.
We're gonna be smashing
this Chelsea bun challenge.
[Ruby] I love eating bread.
Loads of people have turned their back
on bread recently, not me.
I've always liked a Chelsea bun.
Growing up,
definitely one of my favourites.
[Noel] Chelsea buns are made
with an enriched dough,
which has added milk, butter and fats.
♪ Rubbing the butter
Rubbing the butter ♪
[Noel] These extra ingredients
can slow down the yeast,
meaning a longer proving time is needed
to achieve the necessary rise.
The interesting thing
about an enriched dough
is that it's a really good test
of a baker's knowledge.
The dough is gonna take longer to rise,
so not to panic when nothing
seems to be happening.
It will take longer.
It's a bit of a speciality of mine.
I wanna see great flavour combinations
but it's all about the dough itself.
It must be beautiful and soft,
have a great structure inside,
it pulls apart.
It's the classic tear and share.
[Sandi] Hoping for perfect buns,
Kim-Joy has an extra step
that should ensure her dough
rises to the occasion.
Morning, Kim-Joy.
-Hello. Good morning. Hello.
-Hello, Kim-Joy.
Tell us all about your Chelsea buns.
So I'm using the tangzhong technique
in my bread.
What is it? Explain?
Um, it's like doing a roux.
You add it to the dough and it helps
it retain a bit more moisture.
So they'll be extra fluffy hopefully.
Never used that method before myself
so it's gonna be interesting
to see how they turn out.
[Noel] Always experimenting
with new techniques,
Kim-Joy likes to surprise
her boyfriend Nabil
at his comic shop with new creations.
Kim bread. Thank you so much
[Noel] Kim-Joy's extra soft Chelsea buns
will be made with pistachio,
lemon and cardamom filling.
It feels nice being able
to explain something new
to Paul about bread.
[laughs] Feel a bit cheeky saying that.
So, that's done.
[Sandi] Kim-Joy isn't the only one
making additions to her dough mixture.
Some chai teabags
gives a bit more flavour to the dough
and it's yum.
[Sandi] When Manon's not working
as a software consultant,
she can be found relaxing at home
with her flatmate Charlotte,
who has the same taste in tea and pyjamas.
Manon's unique heart shaped buns
will incorporate
two of her favourite fruits,
apricot and cranberry.
In France, we're very lucky to have
a bakery every five minutes' walk.
But since I'm in London,
it's quite harder to find bread.
No, it isn't.
-[laughs]
-[Sandi] According to a French person.
Yeah, according to a French person,
there's one on the doorstep.
[Prue] The fact is you have made
more bread since you've been in London.
Exactly. And it is so satisfying.
It just come out the oven.
It smells delicious. Oh, I love it.
[Dan] I'm doing
a spiced orange Chelsea bun.
I'm a little bit worried it's a little bit
simple on the flavours
but, I mean, my kids like them.
That's gotta count for something.
Where's the car?
[Dan] Just a little bit further darling
[Noel] With two harsh critics
of his own at home,
Dan is hoping to impress the judges
with his classically flavoured
orange and spiced buns
packed with brandy-soaked sultanas.
How you feeling?
I feel like my bread's pretty average.
Like it's not...
It's all right, but then there's Paul
standing there looking at it.
-Oh, no. He is the bread specialist.
-He is.
-He's Captain Bread.
-You can't pull one over on him, can you?
No. He sleeps in a bap.
[Karen] I'm kneading it now,
and I can feel it starting
to get quite elastic.
[Noel] Kneading creates
the gluten responsible
for giving bread a good structure.
It's good exercise, this.
It's the only exercise I get.
[Noel] Without enough kneading,
the bakers buns will be dense and flat.
I'm just gonna knead it
for 1 minute 45 seconds more. [laughs]
This is my time schedule,
so I've gotta follow it.
[Noel] Antony's taking
a more relaxed approach.
[Antony] I'm gonna let the mixer do
the most of it.
Well, my partner and me,
we love to have bacon
and maple syrup and pancakes,
so I'm going for a decadent breakfast bun.
[Sandi] Big foodies,
Antony and his partner Gary,
are always experimenting
with flavour combinations in the kitchen.
If filling his buns with a cinnamon
peanut butter wasn't indulgent enough,
he's also topping them
with a boozy caramel sauce.
That is if everything adds up.
[Prue] So, you've got 11 and one
in the middle. Is that it?
[Antony] Three in the middle
and the rest on the outside.
Don't ask for the math.
-Can't do the maths.
-Can't do the maths right now.
[Paul] All right, Antony.
Okay, thank you anyway.
-Thank you
-[Sandi] You're a banker, right?
-I am... Shh.
-Yeah.
Can't do the maths. Okay.
I'm just saying, anybody else?
It's no wonder we've had a banking crisis.
[laughs]
[Terry] It's just really
trying to stretch it out.
It's a good workout, yeah.
[Noel] Forever tinkering at home,
artistic Terry is a keen gardener,
potter and painter.
I'll be with you in a second, Chuck.
[Noel] Hoping to make up
for a wobbly last week,
Terry's going the extra mile
by using home cured
locally sourced Amalfi lemons,
chopped apricots, dates and mixed peel.
Is bread your thing, Terry?
I love bread. I'd like to say...
I thought other things
were my things, but...
[all laughing]
I just live by the day in here,
honestly, it's just--
[Paul] I wanna see you
flourish a little bit more.
-This could be my week.
-Hmm.
It's nice and squishy.
I think it's ready to prove.
We can rock and roll.
About 30 or 40 minutes.
[Terry] So I want it
to double in size, basically.
I'm hoping 25 minutes.
Oh, be good.
[Sandi] With their dough proving...
A very nice mango smell.
[Sandi] ...the bakers face
a race against time...
[Jon] Everyone loves my chopper.
[Sandi] ...to get their fillings ready.
Can I put an order in now, Antony?
[Antony chuckles]
So, my Chelsea bun has got
an Indian twist on it this week.
The filling is called gujarela,
which is carrots boiled down in milk
and then I'll be going in with some ghee
because it's not rich enough.
[Sandi] Always keen to step up
to a challenge,
fitness fanatic Ruby,
will add vanilla and cinnamon to her dough
to compliment her sweet carrot filling.
[Prue] My only worry
is whether it will restrict
the rise of the dough.
So, I make sure
it's just quite a thin layer.
So, I'll reduce it down,
so it'll become a bit more of a mulch.
[Sandi] I don't think
you should use the word mulch
'cause last week he said one of your bakes
looked like a forest floor.
I'm just saying.
Thanks. Paul, don't comment there.
I'd rather not.
[Briony] So, the strawberries
have been soaking
in 25-year-old balsamic vinegar.
Me and my husband had strawberries
with balsamic on our
honeymoon in Florence.
[Sandi] When not finding culinary
inspiration on far-flung travels,
Briony can be found exploring new bakes
more locally in Bristol
with her mum Coleen.
Have a little bite. Go on.
[Sandi] Her attempt
at a Tuscan masterpiece
will see her combine
raisins and pistachios
before finishing with a finely balanced
balsamic glaze.
That's the youngest...
-That's the child.
-Yeah, that's the baby. That's 12 years.
-Twelve?
-And that's 25.
And what? You're using all different ages?
'Cause that one's really sweet
and then they get...
-[Noel] Why, 'cause it's older?
-Yeah.
-They get sweeter as they get older?
-They get sweeter. Yeah.
Wow. I'm learning so much on this show.
It just goes in, and then as I walk home
it goes out.
Still don't know what ganache is.
[both laughing]
[Karen] So here's the marzipan.
And I get excited by colour.
I've always been a bit garish
and lacking taste.
[Sandi] Karen's love of colour
extends beyond the kitchen.
She can often be found creating things
for her friends
and family at home in Yorkshire.
For a Christmassy twist,
she'll be adding cranberries
to her textbook Bakewell flavours.
Oh, not again.
No, I know but it's my favourite.
I don't care. You've done it every week.
-No.
-No, but it's delicious.
-It's getting boring now.
-No, it's not.
Are these two filling you with confidence?
-Absolutely bursting with confidence.
-Excellent.
You do win best dressed.
That's all I'm saying.
And it's Bread Week here in the tent.
We've come to an exciting moment.
Bakers, one hour gone. Two hours left.
Terrible tension.
Ooh, yeah. It looks good.
[Ruby] I mean I think it's doubled
in size. He looks big.
[Dan] I'm just knocking it back.
It's always a bit terrifying at this point
but this is normally
what it looks like. So...
Loving my dough at the moment.
My Chelsea buns are called
Cardiff City versus Chelsea Buns.
Don't mind about Paul and Prue,
I want Neil Warnock to have one of these.
[Noel] Jon spends his weekends cheering
on his beloved Bluebirds
with his mates.
He's hoping to soar
into a league of his own
by giving his salted caramel
and pecan buns an unusual topping.
-You're putting marshmallow on the top?
-Yeah.
That sounds really disgusting.
[laughter]
-Don't hold back, Prue.
-Yeah.
I do have quite a sweet tooth.
[Ruby] Oh. Get on there.
I'm not using any wet fruit
or anything like that
but the butter keeps it really moist.
[Manon] The more the butter, the better.
[Dan] Right, let's roll it up, shall we?
All I'm thinking is,
getting everything even across.
[Rahul] I do want
a very, very tight circle.
Oh, that's gonna be really tricky.
[Dan] Don't stick on me now.
Right.
[Paul] Morning, Rahul.
-Hi, Rahul.
-[sighs] Oh!
-Don't sigh.
-Good morning.
[Paul] Hold your hand out.
[Rahul] It's shaking. It's always shaking.
-[Prue] Oh.
-What are you worried about?
It's so many things...
You're Star Baker.
-[Prue] Star Baker for goodness' sake.
-Okay, yeah. We'll see.
There's only one way to go
from there though, isn't there?
-Yeah, that's true.
-That's the trouble.
[Sandi] Rahul moved to the UK
eight years ago.
Hello, guys.
[Sandi] And now bakes regularly
to make new friends.
[woman] Look at that.
[Sandi] He'll be giving his classic
Chelsea bun dough an exotic kick
with a sweet mango and cranberry filling
flavoured with Bengali five spice.
I always use a thread
so I'm hoping that will give me
a nice, sharp, clean cut.
[Briony] It doesn't squash them down,
which can happen when you use a knife.
Although saying that, I've just realised
how wonky that one is.
I don't know how much they're gonna spread
and grow and hopefully
this is a good guess.
[Manon] Gonna make them
a little heart shape.
[Dan] Pretty happy with those.
Although you never really know
until they've had their second prove.
[Ruby] Do your thing. Please be good.
Um, I've made a complete mess.
Before I rolled my dough
I should have sprinkled this
over the fruit and I haven't.
Absolute disaster.
This is not the way to do it.
It's whether they stay together now.
Oh, my life.
As we were.
[Sandi] God, look at the time.
Bakers, you only have one hour left.
Oh, God.
[Sandi] The bakers must
manage their time carefully.
What are you doing
for the next 25 minutes?
-[laughing]
-Stressing.
[Noel] If they don't prove their dough
for long enough,
their buns will be too tight
and won't achieve the trademark share
and tear that Paul has asked for.
Five more minutes? Not five more minutes?
Is it gonna over prove? Under prove? Ah!
[Sandi] If the bakers prove them
for too long the buns will collapse.
I do not want them to go... flat.
[Kim-Joy] I need it to hurry up and rise.
So I need to get a move on.
Oh, what shall I do?
Wait a couple more minutes? I don't know.
Hmm. It's always a stressy moment.
My head's inside the prover right now.
I can't think.
Breathe.
[Manon] Just, like, when is the right time
-to take them out to cook them?
-I know. I know.
[Jon] They look ready.
I don't know why I'm second guessing it.
Makes me nervous.
Paul's prowling around like a bear.
He can mess with your head, can't he?
[Ruby] I can't ever tell
what he's thinking.
I think he wants to see my buns?
[both laughing]
-[beeping]
-Okay, there we go.
[Dan] Are you proved already?
[Ruby] God, they're massive.
[Rahul] They're gonna get
even more massive in the oven.
Have you ever had it
where the middles explode upwards?
Oh, don't say that to me now.
[Briony] I'm gonna put them in the oven
if I can get them out of the proving bag.
I'll be back in a few days.
[Dan] They're not very uniform,
but you don't start poking dough
about once it's proved.
What you doing? Prodding?
I'm just opening the swirl
up a little bit.
Right, chucking them in.
-[Noel] Really?
-What do you mean "really"?
-Is it time?
-Don't get in my head.
Be well.
Bakers, you have half an hour left.
Half an hour.
Oh, let's put the sign of the cross
and that's going in.
[Karen] Do your best.
[Jon] Nineteen minutes.
Let's go.
[Kim-Joy] They're on their way up.
The yeast just has that last burst
of energy but then it dies.
It's dying right now.
But it's for a good cause.
[Terry] Considering the disaster
of forgetting the sugar,
I think they've come out okay.
It might be the new way. [laughs]
[Briony] They've gone a little bit
too poufy in places, but they're big.
[Rahul] I think they're massive that's why
they're taking much time to cook.
I will just leave it. The more I see it,
the more I get stressed.
[Antony] I'm hoping it bakes.
Shall I start again?
Bakers, you have five minutes left.
What?
Oh, come on, please. Please.
Just need it to be about 92 degrees.
[Noel] Ninety-one.
Ninety-two. I guess they're done then.
Oh, my God.
They never look like that at home.
[Manon] I think I've cooked them
a little bit too much.
I'm just worried that Paul is gonna say,
it's a bit over baked.
I'm quite pleased with it.
I think tangzhong is amazing.
This one's taking ages to bake.
[Noel] Is that good or bad?
[Antony] Terry behind me has said
good things take a long time.
[Noel] Yeah,
but his are already out, so...
Yeah.
It is a big waiting game
but it's worth it.
Bakers, you have one minute.
Just one minute.
[Ruby] One minute.
[Jon] This is my little bluebirds.
Gold spray. So if nothing else
it will be colourful.
I'm happy with that.
[Rahul] I think they need
a little bit longer.
[Terry] Considering the disaster,
they could have been,
if they taste okay, I'll be happy.
They are gonna say it's messy, again.
[Rahul] All right, let's do it.
One. Two. Three.
Oh, my God, it's very hot. Oh!
Done-zo!
[Ruby] Go. Go. Go. Go.
-Thank you.
-You're welcome.
Bakers, your time is up.
[Sandi] Please place your Chelsea buns
at the end of your benches.
Job's done.
-Stop, Rahul.
-Yep.
Don't make me come over there.
[sighs]
[Noel] The bakers Chelsea buns
will now face the judgement
of Paul and Prue.
-They look pretty even.
-[Paul] Hmm.
[Paul] Got a nice colour on em.
The tangzhong,
it's gonna be interesting to see
how that affects the dough.
I think it's offered up
a very delicate dough.
It's quite soft,
which is good for a Chelsea bun.
So, I think your baking is very good.
I like the flavours.
Is there citrus in there as well?
Yeah, a little bit.
That's the overriding flavour
that you get.
I think it's delicate and it needs to be
a little more obvious.
[Prue] They're heart shaped, aren't they?
[Manon] Yes.
Very neat. Slightly overbaked.
[Prue] The edges definitely tough.
[Paul] The flavour's fantastic.
The marzipan really works with the fruit
and the apricots as well.
The dough has got a gorgeous structure.
If you brought it out five, seven minutes
earlier, they would have been perfect.
Okay.
[Paul] They're all even.
Got a nice colour.
They break apart neatly.
Absolutely delicious.
Really sticky on the outside.
Great orange. Bang of flavour.
Oh, really good.
Dan...
-Ah.
-It's perfect.
-Thank you.
-[all clapping]
It's annoyingly perfect
and I'll tell you why.
Your structures are regular,
it's beautiful and soft.
Your interior has a good
overwhelming orange flavour
and even the decoration
sits on top beautifully.
It's a well-made Chelsea bun that.
Dan, we're in love with you.
-[exhales]
-[laughing]
Well done. [laughs]
[Paul] I think it looks impressive.
It's overbaked.
It shouldn't be crispy.
The structure's good.
Soft but the outside is tough.
Hmm.
The overall impression is of dryness,
which is such a pity because the flavours,
once you swallow everything,
is just fantastic.
[Paul] One of the qualities
of peanut butter is that it's very dry.
When you have a dough that's very dry
what you're getting is dry.
Stop saying dry, everyone.
Everyone, stop saying dry.
-[laughs]
-Thanks, Noel.
[Paul] I think they look
like the ones I make.
[Prue] Looks lovely.
Tastes great.
The dough's beautiful and soft.
The sweetness is about right too.
But spread the fruit more evenly
so you don't get these big gaps.
If you had hit the filling, it's perfect.
Thank you.
They look really pretty,
but they've exploded a bit, haven't they?
[Briony] I know they have, yeah.
[Paul] It hasn't been folded properly
and neatly enough.
Right, okay.
Lovely and light. Nice dough.
I think that's delicious.
Oh, yay.
The flavour is very, very good.
It's a shame it looks the way it does.
Okay. Yeah, okay. Thank you.
[Prue] Do you know,
I think it looks really pretty.
Lovely flavour.
-Good.
-Structure is lovely.
-It is well baked.
-Oh, good.
I love bakewell but I've had it
a few times from you now.
Next bake you do please don't put anymore.
I was thinking though,
you say signature, isn't that something
-you always take everywhere you go?
-Hmm.
-Well, there you go.
-There you go.
-Thank you.
Did you have sugar in your dough?
I didn't, but there was sugar
in the carrot mixture.
It's not enough.
This feels hard. It feels crusty.
-It's not how a Chelsea bun should be.
-Right. Okay.
I think that flavour's very interesting
but I think it fundamentally lacks that...
-Yeah.
-...stickiness.
Mixture in a Chelsea bun don't work.
Oh, okay.
[whispers] I'll have a word with him.
Yeah, have a word.
[Paul] Well, I do like what you've done.
It's quite impressive.
[Prue] It looks nice and spongy.
I think it feels slightly overbaked.
It's overbaked.
-It is?
-Hmm.
It should be much softer
than that on the palate.
Flavour's absolutely delicious.
Yes. That's what I wanted.
I like the decoration
but not so fine a Chelsea bun.
All right. I'll put a liver bird
on the next one, how's that? [chuckles]
I'm sorry about
that much fruit on the top.
[Noel] Are you trying to match my jumper?
[Prue] Well, it does look a bit messy
-but I must say...
-[Rahul] Yeah.
...it looks delicious.
Pulls apart lovely.
It's very soft and gooey,
which is way a Chelsea bun should be.
It's very interesting.
Such savoury spices.
I mean there's such a contrast
to the sweet fruit
but I really like that.
[Paul] It's baked to perfection.
I think the mango chutney is stunning.
Very clever, Rahul.
-That's a very good Chelsea bun.
-Thank you.
You don't need to apologise. You're great.
It's just me being me.
I just feel so scared all the time
that I just say sorry to them.
But it went okay I guess.
Oh, my God, look, pheasants.
Two-- Two male pheasants?
I'm a little bit baffled to be honest.
Like, I really don't think bread
is, like, a strong point of mine
and he seemed to really like it.
Hollywood Handshake. It's the second one.
Its old hat.
[laughs]
It's got to be my best challenge yet.
And Paul said they look like the ones
he makes so that was good.
There's more baking in me, yet I think.
[Antony] I am feeling a little too low
after dry, dry, dry, dry. [laughs]
But we'll try smashing it back
for the Technical.
[Sandi] The bakers practised
for their first challenge
but nothing can prepare them
for what lies ahead.
One of the shortest Technical challenges
ever seen in the tent.
Well, its Bread Week,
so I don't think that
Prue got a look in when it came to setting
this week's Technical challenge.
It is a Hollywood Hurdle. Any advice?
[Paul] There's not much time
to complete this challenge
so use your time wisely.
[Sandi] There you go.
Right, off you two pop.
[Noel] For your Technical challenge today,
Paul would love you to make a batch
of non-yeasted garlic naan breads.
[Sandi] So the judges are looking
for eight naan breads.
They must be uniform in size
and brushed with garlic ghee.
You have one hour.
-On your marks...
-Get set...
Bake.
[Dan] Right. Naan breads.
I have absolutely no idea what I'm doing.
[Ruby] One hour. Not long.
If nothing else, it'll be over quickly.
[Jon] I love naan breads.
I've baked them a few times
but I've never done one without yeast.
[Noel] Naan breads are traditionally
made in a tandoor oven.
I've made naan bread once.
Hopefully all my ancestors' souls
are helping me out here.
[Noel] But today the judges are asking
the bakers to use their grill instead.
[Kim-Joy] I have grilled bread before.
I don't remember what I grilled
but I have. [laughs]
Paul, why have we got naan
for our Technical Bake?
I'm hoping to catch them out with this.
This is a naan bread using baking powder.
Traditionally it would be yeast.
But they'll have to use
their baking knowledge
because the kneading and resting
won't take as long
as it would with a yeasted dough.
[Prue] What can go wrong, Paul?
With a dough that's quite wet
it's gonna be quite tricky
'cause you're getting them
all the same size.
Then they've got to grill them.
They've got to heat that tray up properly.
If they put a cold naan under the grill,
gonna be spending at least five minutes,
maybe longer,
and the whole naan will dry out
and be like a cracker.
If they're too thick,
they're not gonna bake.
Lovely flavour.
I never thought you could do that
with a grill.
You making the curry then?
Absolutely.
First instruction for the naan,
make the dough.
Wow. It just says make the dough.
That's it.
Yeah, that's it.
[Ruby] Have I made naan?
No.
I just go into the freezer
and chuck it into the toaster.
So buzzing.
Reasonably happy with that.
I've made naan bread the same as this,
no yeast.
You just have to, like,
believe your instinct.
[Dan] I have almost zero instinct
on this one.
Oh, this is very wet, isn't it?
[Briony] I hate kneading wet dough.
Normally cheat and put it in the mixer
but there ain't no mixer.
Considering I was kneading dough
a few hours ago
as well, this is quite hard work.
[Antony] Should be a little wet.
Just enough to bring it together
'cause naan breads are very soft.
[Ruby] Ah. The more I work it,
it just does not seem to be
getting any smoother.
I don't really know what to do
with not yeasted dough. [laughs]
Feeling quite relaxed at the minute.
Yeah, having decent comments
from the Signature challenge
puts you in good stead.
Yeah, it's coming together now.
Couple more of these.
I'm gonna stop with my kneading.
Are you gonna stop? I'm gonna stop.
[both laughing]
There you go.
[sighs] Ah!
Rest the dough.
For how long? I do not know.
Probably about four minutes
on this challenge.
I'm gonna be leaving it to rest
for about 20 minutes
till it's got a nice sponge to it.
[Briony] Look at the state of it.
I don't even know what I'm doing.
Is there anything I can do for you?
[beeping]
-I'll draw a cat on your instructions.
-Could you?
[laughs]
[Noel] The cat has got a filthy mouth.
[Briony] That is a potty mouthed cat.
[reading] "For the ghee, melt the butter
in a small pan over a low heat."
[Antony] A lot of people
say it's unhealthy,
but every Indian will overdose
on this stuff
'cause it oils their joints. [laughs]
[reading] "Carefully skim the foam
as it rises to the surface."
[Sandi] Onto the garlic.
I love garlic.
To be honest, I'd put garlic
in my breakfast if I could, you know.
-Yeah, I may not join you for that.
-Gotta love your garlic.
I've just taken the dough out.
It feels quite wet but I think
it's meant to be a little bit wet.
The dough feels good.
[Ruby] I need to shape them
into eight individual naans.
[Rahul] Twenty-five...
Close enough.
Have you had many Indian takeaways?
'Cause I surprisingly haven't.
-Yeah, I love naan bread.
-What shape?
I'm going for pitta bread shape.
Classic teardrop shape for me naan.
Like a sort of baggy skull.
[vocalizing]
That's it. Freeze.
No, that's not it. Let's keep going.
Mine look very tiny I think.
So now...
Heat the grill pan under the grill.
Lay the dough on the hot grill pan
and bake.
[Jon] I'd fry them at home,
but Paul's asked for the grill.
He gets the grill.
[Sandi] If the grill pan
isn't hot enough...
[Karen] I'm always a bit scared
of things like this.
[Sandi] ...the naans will not have
the softly-bubbled texture
that the judges are looking for.
I've got a hot grill pan.
It says to brush your ghee after.
But I'm gonna brush before and after,
'cause I think that's what I'd do.
Right, just get them on.
[Terry] Cook these one at a time.
Two.
[Ruby] They're gonna
have to go four in at a time.
But I don't know if that's a bad idea
and they're just gonna, like, explode.
[Antony] I'm going in.
I don't really know how long these things
need to bake for.
If it's burning, it's done.
If it's not burnt, you might be lucky.
I'm having a little bit of a trial
on this first one.
I want relatively crispy outside
with a nice, soft, doughy inside.
Absolutely no idea. I'm gonna come back
to them in two minutes.
I think it should just be about
four or five minutes each.
-Why you on your knees? Are you praying?
-I'm praying.
[laughing]
[Terry] Come on, you bugger.
Uh, they've puffed up
Oh.
[Manon] You've got bubbles.
I think that's quite good.
A bit too crispy for my taste,
but let's turn them over.
[Antony] I need it to go much faster.
Gonna give the other side
just a couple of seconds.
[Kim-Joy] They're not
very brown underneath.
Right, bakers, you have 15 minutes left.
Just 15 minutes.
[Antony] God in heaven.
-[oven beeping]
-Okay. I think that's about done.
[Dan] Oh, God,
they look totally different,
but I ain't got time to mess around.
They'll have to come out.
[Ruby] He's well done.
[Jon] Yeah, they look like naan breads.
Yeah, I'm happy. I'd eat one.
[Manon] Do they look like something
you would like to eat?
[Noel] Yes.
-[Manon] You can say no.
-Is that the right answer?
I genuinely have no idea.
They could be all right.
They could be a disaster.
That one's a bit pale.
Hopa!
Second batch. Yes.
Trying to get two in at a time
at the moment, because time is short.
[Antony] I'm doing three at a time.
I think I'm going in with four
the next time.
[sharp exhale]
We can do it.
It's going to be really, really tight.
Calm down. You'll be fine.
Bakers, you have one minute left.
Let's just go.
Bake time.
[grunting]
[Briony] Absolute chaos.
[Rahul] Just needs a little bit longer.
[exhales]
[Terry] Done.
Just need to make them speed-up browning.
[Ruby] Quick, quick, quick.
[Briony] They are what they are.
Bakers, your time is up.
Whoo!
Those are no good.
Indian food has never stressed me
so much. What?
[Sandi] Please place your naan
behind your photograph.
It doesn't sound right.
-[Karen] That was a bit of a...
-[Terry] Wasn't it?
[Noel] Paul and Prue are looking
for eight identical naan breads,
brushed with garlic ghee
and topped with coriander.
They have no idea
whose naan breads are whose.
[Paul] Right,
we'll start with these.
Bit inconsistent with some of the colours.
Shapes are a bit odd as well.
-This end is brick hard.
-Mmm-hmm.
Not getting much garlic either.
Now someone's chosen to do...
[Prue] Round ones.
[Paul] Well, roundish ones.
They are all a variety
of different shapes.
Breaks well.
[Prue] Oh, I love the way
it tears into flakes.
The taste is good.
Hmm. That is a lot of garlic.
-[laughs]
-It is.
[Paul] Now, you look at this one.
They're all similar in shape.
-You can see it flakes. Yeah.
-[Prue] Oh, I like the flaking.
[Paul] Yeah, some of them are overbaked.
Look at that one.
It's more like a pitta.
Interesting.
Now, we've got some
strong colours here again.
That one's raw and that one's black.
That sounds like someone
running out of time, doesn't it?
Bit thick as well.
Do you know, even where they're thick,
that's quite nice bread.
[Paul] These look great.
[Prue] That looks fantastic.
[Paul] They feel much softer.
That is very light.
It hasn't been under the grill long
and yet it's been so hot
that you've got a good colour.
Good shape. Consistency. Good flavour.
-Yeah, they're pretty good.
-Very good.
[Paul] A bit inconsistent in shape.
[Prue] And size.
[Paul] They're a bit thick as well.
Taste okay.
These look very thick.
[Prue] And very small.
[Paul] Look at the size of them. Wow.
Flavour's good.
Now, these got a nice colour.
They're nice and light.
-[Prue] That's undercooked on one side.
-Yeah, it is.
It's a pity, that, 'cause its nice bread,
isn't it?
It's just more like a thick pitta.
[Kim-Joy] Now looking at these,
the inconsistency in the baking...
Oh, dear. Look at that.
All the backs aren't cooked.
[Paul] Hot plate was very cold underneath.
-Right, last one.
-Okay.
[Paul] They're all the same size.
Hmm, that's a bit raw.
You see how wet that is?
It's not quite done.
The flavour's okay.
But they are thick.
-Not good.
-Interesting.
[Sandi] Paul and Prue will now rank
the naan breads from worst to best.
In place number ten, we have this one.
Oh, Kim-Joy.
Really undercooked
and pretty inedible I'm afraid.
In ninth spot is this one.
A bit inconsistent.
It was very thick as well.
Eighth place, this one here.
Very heavy.
They're only baked on one side.
Not good.
[Noel] Ruby's seventh.
Dan's sixth.
Karen is fifth.
Rahul is fourth
and Manon is third.
[Prue] And then in second place...
...was this one.
They tasted wonderful. They had lots
of ghee on top and lots of garlic.
So, in first place,
-[cheering]
-Terry.
The consistency was excellent.
It's the fact that they're still soft.
You could taste the ghee.
It was beautifully done.
They're great naan breads. Well done.
We're coming round to yours for takeaway.
[Terry] I actually feel quite ecstatic.
I do like bread.
[laughs] I'm getting to like it more.
That was a very quick hour.
You know, I was just really happy
I got eight naans out
to be honest with you.
[Ruby] Never, ever making
a naan bread ever again.
At least I wasn't the worst
Indian in the room.
I'm not from the region
that makes naans.
We make rotis, which is very different.
Well, Karen really pulled it back
last week, so that's my inspiration.
I can't go out on Bread Week.
It's not an option.
That's it. [laughs]
[chattering]
So, the thing that pleased me
most yesterday
was that Terry did well
'cause I think he needed a good day,
didn't he?
He did, but he seemed almost
shell shocked that he'd done so well.
[Sandi] So, who's in line for Star Baker?
[Paul] Dan's doing okay.
I mean, he came sixth in technical,
but he did really well on the Sig.
-He got a handshake again, didn't he?
-He did.
He did. He did really well.
And Rahul, for all his protestations,
of, "I'm sorry, it's terrible,"
has been doing really well.
[Ruby] And I think
there's a big group of people
at the moment in a little bit of trouble,
and I'd say certainly Antony.
Ruby.
Briony.
I'd have to say Kim-Joy as well
for the first time.
[Sandi] So, I want to know, Paul,
is there pressure on you
when it's Bread Week?
Yeah, 'course there is.
-Look, he's wearing black.
-[all laughing]
The godfather of bread.
[exhales]
Hello, lovely bakers.
Welcome back to the tent.
For your showstopper today,
Paul and Prue would love you to make
a tiered korovai.
I mean, who knows what that even is?
Yeah, well, it's a highly decorative
enriched sweet bread.
It's mainly seen at Eastern European
festivities and celebrations,
you know like, weddings.
It stems from a pagan belief
in the magical properties of grain and...
-What?
-Thanks, Wikipedia.
[all laughing]
Your tiered korovai must have
at least three tiers, any shape.
They must be impressively decorated
to reflect your chosen celebratory party.
You have five hours.
Wow. I've got time to write a novel.
-I'm gonna learn Spanish.
-Yeah.
[Sandi] On your marks...
[Noel] Get set...
Bake.
All right.
[Karen] I need to move quickly,
because the time,
it seems a lot but it's not.
It's all go.
[Kim-Joy] When I was reading about
korovai, it's made by, like 12 women
over days and days.
So I'm gonna look at it in that way.
It's probably not enough time.
[Paul] We've had some whopping challenges
in the past, but this is a big one.
This is a five-hour bread challenge.
I think the mixer
is struggling to cope with this.
[grunts]
When you're dealing in big lumps of dough,
it's about the baking times.
They're never gonna fit all the dough
in the oven at the same time,
so they've gotta think almost like
a professional of batch baking.
But they've got plenty of time
to bake them properly.
[Prue] The great thing about a korovai
is that it is decorated
to within an inch of its life.
Traditionally, korovai decorations
are very symbolic
and I think we should stick to that.
What we'd like is the decorations
to mean something to the bakers.
[Paul] The bakers have got to produce
a great loaf that tastes good
and looks amazing.
I'm expecting korovai perfection.
[Sandi] The bakers' korovai's
must have at least three tiers,
which can be any shape, size or flavour.
[Manon] I am adding some fleur d'oranger.
It's like orange blossom.
[Sandi] But the dough must be good enough
to earn its place
centre stage at their chosen party
or celebration.
[Ruby] Ooh!
[Sandi] Six of our bakers, including Ruby,
have chosen the most common celebration
for their korovai.
A wedding.
Good morning, Ruby.
-Hello, Ruby.
-Morning.
Tell us about your korovai then.
What you doing?
So my korovai is for my mum and dad.
They didn't have a wedding cake,
so this is in dedication to them.
[Noel] Ruby's ambitious
four-tiered korovai
will be packed with an apricot,
almond liqueur and cherry filling.
Hoping to put herself back in the running,
she'll use a highly intricate technique
to shape her bread.
Mine's actually shaped as a couronne,
which in French means crown.
And my mum's a queen.
So it was quite
a fitting sentiment to her.
It's a lot to do,
-but you seem to have worked it all out.
-[Ruby] Yeah.
I think it's possible.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] Yeah, good luck. Thank you.
I loved that you called your mum a queen.
Thanks.
My mum's in Queen.
She's Brian May. See you later.
[Ruby] See you later.
I'm not even thinking whether it could be
the last time I'm in the tent.
It's been great.
I've just got to make sure this is great.
[Sandi] Antony's taking
his wedding celebrations...
The feeling is adventure.
[Sandi] ...to the extreme.
[Antony] It's gonna be a wedding cake
for my brother.
So my honeymoon gift to him
was an adventure trip
to the foothills of the Himalayas.
Wow.
[Sandi] Antony's ode to the mountains
will see him use
chocolate and orange flavours.
Perched on top will be
his brother and sister-in-law
as thrill-seeking doves
about to embark on a journey
of a lifetime.
There's gonna be a zip line coming down
right from the top.
-Hopefully it all works out perfectly.
-That sounds amazing, yeah.
We can test it out using Sandi.
She'd be small enough to use it.
[clicks tongue]
[Kim-Joy] It's sticky
but that's good.
[Kim-Joy] If the Himalayas
weren't exotic enough,
Kim-Joy's wedding theme
is even further out there.
[Kim-Joy] I'm calling it a kit-ovai,
because it's about a wedding of two cats.
Amazing. More cats should be married.
It's Ruffles and Raffles.
-Ruffles and Raffles?
-Yeah.
[laughing]
[Noel] Kim-Joy's marking
her smitten kitten's big day
with a cinnamon and cranberry korovai.
Ruffles and Raffles will head up the party
with their guests around them.
I just want to get this
in the proving drawer first.
That's not gonna work.
Oh, that will just rise
at room temperature.
Giant amounts of dough.
[sighs]
[Dan] I'm making the dough in one batch.
It is a big ball of dough,
and, yeah, it's a bit annoying
I can't fit it in the mixer
but at least
I've only got to do this once.
[Sandi] Having foregone a cake
at his own wedding,
Dan's going all out
with a ginormous bread,
flavoured with orange and lemon zest
and finished off with delicate
handcrafted roses.
[Dan] This is just gonna go and prove.
So, decorations now.
Let's go, go, go.
[Noel] A traditional korovai is adorned
with hundreds of intricate
bread decorations...
Don't panic, just do it.
[Noel] ...which for our bakers means
only one thing. More dough
[Briony] This is a dead dough.
There's no use in this one.
[Antony] When you're making
all of these intricate designs,
you don't want it to rise.
It needs to hold itself.
[Ruby] I am making my little doves.
They're just a bit fiddly and painstaking.
[Noel] The jewel of a wedding korovai
are the two lovebirds...
[Briony] Very romantic little doves.
[Noel] ...representing
the newly married couple.
[Dan] Obviously got two boys
on top of mine.
This is gay bread.
[Paul] Is that its tongue?
No, that's a beak.
[Paul] Ah. Well, shouldn't it be
that way then?
[Karen] Well, I think it looks
weird that way
[Noel] I thought they were turtles.
[Karen] They look a bit like turtles.
[Paul] I thought they were seals.
[Karen] They look like seals.
[Sandi] Inspired by a pair of newlyweds
she met in France,
Karen's making
a continental breakfast wedding bread,
decorated with symbols of the couple's
honeymoon around the country.
Just making my bunches of grapes.
The green is matcha tea.
When I was at home, I didn't have
the matcha tea, so I used...
I got some mint sauce out of the cupboard.
But this is so beautiful.
Quite like doing this kind of decoration.
This is like a roti dough.
So, I remember when I was little
my mum used to give me
bread dough when she was making roti
to play with,
because I was not-- never
like outdoor kind of person.
-No.
-So, I kind of
go back to my childhood now.
[Noel] Inspired by the first British
summer wedding he ever attended,
Rahul will decorate his bread
with an abundance of flowers and garlands.
In my ideal world, I would probably
do a lot of decorations.
What is your ideal world, Rahul?
Oh, I actually thought like, I'm gonna do,
like, 200 pieces of decoration.
Two hundred pieces?
[Sandi] Less wedded
to the marriage theme...
Cutting the dragon out of bread.
[Sandi] Jon is celebrating
his first true love.
What I'm making
is a Bara Dathliad Dydd Dewi Sant,
which is Saint David's Day
Celebration Bread.
[Sandi] Not content with an abundance
of Welsh themed decorations,
Jon the patriot,
will also be using
traditional bara brith flavours.
Even closer still to heart and home,
he's brought with him and extra memento.
[Jon] I have plaited my daughters' hair.
I don't plait it very well.
Really nice to have that to look at
when I'm doing this.
Bit of inspiration.
I've done this wrong, haven't I, now?
This part of the decoration
is a Fabergé inspired korovai.
-Fabergé?
-[Prue] Fabergé?
Yeah. It's inspired by my family tattoo.
My mum and dad, brother, sister,
we all have it.
[Sandi] Manon's colourful Showstopper
will be flavoured with orange blossom
and boast ornate lattice work
at the bottom.
She'll top it with her very own
Fabergé egg.
[Manon] Shaping an egg shape is difficult
but my mum and dad have an egg farm,
so I guess making egg shaped things
kind of runs in my blood.
[laughing]
Okay. He's a beaut.
[Sandi] While most of the bakers
will be adding their decorations
on top of their bread,
Briony's also adding them into hers.
I'm about to turret.
-Oh.
-Hmm.
-Is that a technical term?
-If you will. Yes, yes, yes.
[Briony] So, I stick them
inside the baking tin,
and then as the bread
does its second prove,
they embed right into the dough.
[Sandi] Hoping for a fairy-tale ending
of her own,
Briony's making a happily ever after
korovai for Rapunzel,
complete with extensive plaiting.
[Briony] So, this is Rapunzel's hair.
One of many braids
that will be on the loaf.
[Sandi] Before the second prove,
the bakers must twist
and shape their dough.
I'm gonna do the small tier first
and then the medium tier.
[Sandi] The more complicated the design
the longer it will take.
You don't want to make it too basic
but at the same time,
you don't want to make it too complicated.
I'm not gonna plait it and all that.
I'm just gonna do a ring.
[Ruby] I've got to do the plait.
Which just isn't so easy when you're
dealing with something so fricking long.
[Noel] Hoping his dough retains its shape,
Terry is using a traditional method
to prove and bake his korovai tiers.
These little babies
are terracotta baking cloches.
Turned on the table myself at home.
You tend to get
a more uniform cook through.
That's the idea.
[Noel] Green fingered Terry will create
a spring themed korovai,
complete with decorative bees,
flower garlands and bows.
What are you doing now?
I'm just putting a snip through
because this was the wedding thing
of joining together.
-[Sandi] Ah.
-And it also brings your breads together.
[Sandi] I think that's really nice.
[Terry] That's ready to go in.
Just a quick prove from now on.
Fire.
Wow.
Possible that we have too much time
on our hands, do you think?
[gasps] Time!
[Noel] Bakers, you are halfway through
your Showstopper challenge.
What?
-Yes.
-[Noel] Ouch!
All right then.
Let's get cracking with this stuff.
[Sandi] With limited time...
Every second count now.
-[sighs]
-[Sandi] ...and space...
Where to put them down.
[Sandi] ...the bakers face
increasing stress.
Inside me is just like a pressure cooker,
can burst anytime.
[gasps] Sorry! Sorry!
-It's okay. It's all right.
-Sorry, love.
Top tier is on prove one.
Bottom and middle, prove two.
Everything is everywhere.
You take one dough out, one dough in.
You prove.
You add your decoration.
Bit of a juggling act.
[Noel] With multiple tiers
and decorations still to be baked...
[Jon] Just getting my dough ready
so once the first one's finished
I can go straight into my second one.
[Noel] ...they must make
the crucial decision...
[Dan grunts]
[Noel] ...when to stop proving...
[Dan] Right, let's get this bread in.
[Noel] ...and start baking.
Wowee. He has gone ginormous.
I'm okay, I think,
but it's such a big loaf,
but I can't know that till the judging.
[Manon] It just feels a bit different.
Maybe the eggs are bit bigger
than the one I use.
Nestle the cats in various places.
Some of them are grumpy. [laughs]
Come on, out you drop. Come on.
Never stuck before ever. Now it's stuck.
[sighs] Damn it.
The decorations gone. It's dropped.
It's so bad.
[Dan] Come on, bread. Don't let me down.
[Karen] It'll be a good hour
'cause it's a big beast.
Bye-bye. Good luck.
[Briony] This is gonna go in for about
45 minutes I reckon.
Please bake well.
'Cause there's a lot of sugar in there,
they'll catch quite quickly.
[Rahul] I'm gonna just see how it goes.
I'm not confident with anything
happening around my life,
so how can
baking temperature be different?
Don't know what has happened
but my bread has not proved at all.
Panic stations 'cause I'm really,
really lacking for time now.
[Antony] Nope. I'm gonna give it
another 15 minutes.
Should have been in the oven by now.
Oh, my goodness, look at the time.
Bakers, you have one hour left.
[exclaiming]
My breads are still not in!
Wow, you just have no idea
how that works, do you?
[exhales]
[Rahul] Oh, my God. Trailing behind
on the decoration schedule.
You're a bit tight.
-I need to loosen you up.
-I'm a very tight.
Like a breadstick. You're gonna snap.
[Sandi] I'm not sure you've made enough.
-I actually haven't made enough.
-You seriously haven't made enough.
I don't know where time has gone.
[Jon] Right, going in. Right until
the final whistle I'll be baking that.
[Antony] Gotta stop mucking around now.
Sign of the cross.
I'm getting the bread out now.
I'm pretty sure it's cooked.
Okay, it's 90 degrees. It's 90 degrees.
I'm just going to stop it there.
[Briony] Feels a little bit heavy.
I'm pretty sure
it's gonna be quite doughy.
[Noel] This looks like a funeral wreath.
[Ruby] My funeral?
[Noel] If you go home, I'm gonna quit.
-Pinkie promise?
-[laughs] Pinkie promise.
Thanks.
This is the last tier.
They're both going in. They're in.
[timers beeping]
Right, let's make some more roses.
[Kim-Joy] This is the banner.
"Just Meowwied."
[Noel] They're not gonna get
a divorce in a couple of years, are they?
-Well...
-'Cause that would be so sad.
Oh, no.
Bloody same again.
I've never had them stick in there before.
A little underdone.
Let's hope it comes out soon.
Coming out with my oven glove.
I don't think I'm gonna make it.
I don't think I'm gonna get it all out.
It's all stuck to this side.
[exhales]
How much time have we got?
Bakers, you have ten minutes.
Just ten minutes.
Ten minutes.
What can I do to salvage this
in ten minutes?
It's good.
Uh, it's just an assembly job now.
Uh, which is the front?
Because obviously they're quite warm,
the dough will start to flatten.
Ah, that's hot. Nothing's holding it.
Little bit wonky.
Shallower tiers than I would have liked
but I'm not gonna put it on. It's burnt.
Pull it out and quickly
slap everything on.
I'm gonna run.
I need to get a goddamn move on.
[Noel] Are you getting married
to this cake?
It's better looking than my husband.
[both laughing]
-[Terry] Stick.
-[exhales]
Come on, roses.
Ah, it's a clumsy job.
Ah, I've cut too much.
This is just gonna collapse on here now.
[Sandi] Bakers, your time is up.
-[sighs]
-That is the five hours over.
Please place your showstoppers
at the end of your benches.
Wow, yours is lovely, Rahul.
It's all it can be.
Sit. Stay.
I really hope this holds.
That was ridiculous.
[Kim-Joy] Ooh, no. Dropping. Dropping.
[blows raspberry]
Not too sure if it's gonna hold.
[thunder rumbling]
[Sandi] It's judgment time
for the bakers' korovais.
Kim-Joy, please bring up your showstopper.
[Kim-Joy] Not sure.
[Noel] Trust me?
-Yeah.
-I'm a bit of a clutz.
I'm not sure you should have...
Should not have trusted him, Kim-Joy.
This is a shotgun wedding, isn't it?
I mean there are an awful lot
of kittens already.
[all laughing]
[Sandi] Thats their friends.
[Prue] Oh, they're friends.
They're their friends.
I think the bread looks incredible.
It's a lovely bit of plait work as well
and I think the cats are amazing.
It really is charming.
[Paul] Right, let's have a look.
[Prue] That looks lovely.
-Quite like a hot cross bun, isn't it?
-It is, yeah.
Kind of liked a little more fruit in it.
[Paul] And it's bit tight.
So it's a little bit cake like.
Another half an hour proving
that would have been perfect.
Tastes good though.
-And it's certainly celebratory.
-[Paul] Thank you
-Thank you
-[Prue] Thank you
[Paul] We wanted
a highly decorative korovai
-and that's it.
-That's it.
[Prue] It really is a showstopper.
The detail of the swans
and the decorations
are just absolutely lovely.
[Paul] I hope it tastes
as good as it looks.
[Prue] Oh, look at that.
I like that texture. It's like panettone.
That's fantastic.
You can see the swirls of the dough.
The fruit in there is delicious
and that orange tang.
You're a little genius, Rahul.
Thank you.
-Thank you.
-Well done, Rahul.
[sighs]
It's simple and effective.
The colour of the bakes are consistent.
Dan, you must have spent a long time
on the decorations
and they are absolutely exquisite.
And a lovely texture.
Beautifully baked.
It really is. The structure that
you've managed to achieve
is very brioche like.
But it needs something else.
It needs fruit in there.
The flavour is not strong enough.
Okay. [sighs]
The attention to detail on the decoration
is spectacular.
Particularly when you look at the hearts,
the plaiting is very, very good.
[Prue] Lots of filling.
I love the almond flavour.
Perfection.
I've made a lot of couronnes in my time
but the bake that laces its way
through the fruit
is to be applauded.
Thank you.
That is absolutely stunning.
I could eat the whole thing.
Oh, my goodness.
[Paul] Thank you.
[clapping]
Great job, Ruby.
[Prue] It's certainly colourful
but it does look a bit clumsy.
[Paul] I think what you've done is,
you've put two very heavy breads
on top of a bread that's warm.
The whole thing's sunk in.
Yeah. I'm not happy
with it at all, to be honest.
[Prue] And it's a bit heavy
where it's squashed together.
You've got too much fruit in there.
The flavour of it is fantastic.
Well, thank you for that.
I just think the texture, the look,
the whole thing is an issue.
-Bad luck, Jon. Not perfect.
-Thank you, Jon.
Thanks.
My goodness.
[laughs]
I like the fact that
they're muted colours.
-Yeah.
-It's lovely.
[Paul] I think the decoration's
incredible. It's intricate.
I do look at the colour of the bread
and wonder what it's like inside.
-So do I. I have to say.
-[Prue laughs]
[all laughing]
[Prue] The bread's a bit
doughy in the middle.
[Paul] You've had to give it
that strong colour to try and bake it
because it's underproved.
It's so disappointing
because it looks so amazing.
It show stops from the outside.
Bit of a stopper in the inside.
No problem.
-[Paul] Thank you very much.
-Thank you.
[Antony] Just to add to the drama.
Hoping these lovebirds
go down the zip line.
[all] Ah!
[clapping]
[Paul] It's simple but effective.
I worry about the colour of that
and it could be down to the chocolate.
And there are not very many decorations.
[Antony] Yeah, I did have a problem
with time management, unfortunately.
So I couldn't
get all my décor on the cake.
It's a bit heavy.
Oh, not the word.
[Paul] If it's not proved enough
and then it's overbaked,
and you end up with a stodge.
Not your best, Antony.
-It's not my best.
-[Paul] Thank you, Antony.
Cheers, guys. Thank you so much.
Still smiling.
[Paul] The decoration's amazing.
It's almost you concentrated on that
and lost the bread.
All the work that you did you can't see.
And actually parts of the bread's
been ripped off.
[Prue] Did it get stuck on the tin?
It did yes. Yeah.
The whole thing
is not baked. It's massively under proved.
Oh.
But my goodness, the flavour is lovely.
It's very citrusy and sweet. Delicious.
[Paul] How long was the first prove?
-Thirty minutes.
-And the second one?
Fifteen.
Fifteen? And then you baked it?
Yeah.
That's where your problem is.
It should have been at least two hours.
The idea's sound enough but unfortunately
not very well executed.
That's fair play.
Well, I love the Fabergé egg on the top,
and this lattice is lovely.
And I hope it tastes as good as it looks.
[Paul] You've managed
to utilise the dead dough
together with the bread
and it works as a package.
So well done.
Right, let's have a look.
The orange flower water is too strong.
It's like bath bubbles.
Oh, no.
Do you know what? You're lacking salt.
And I think it's effected the texture
of the loaf as well.
The design is impeccable
but I think everything inside is wrong.
-That's okay. Thank you.
-Thank you.
-The slightly Leaning Tower of Pisa.
-[Briony] It is. Yeah.
It looks very basic.
But you know what?
I love the way you've embedded
the towers in the dough.
Thank you.
[Noel] Aw!
Bye, Prince.
He's dead now.
Yeah, happy ending for Rapunzel.
I think for a celebration korovai,
it really needs more flavour
or fruit or something.
-[Paul] It's definitely underproved.
-Okay.
It's so tight. You needed
about another half hour, maybe longer.
[exhales]
[Noel] That was quite a tricky
showstopper, wasn't it?
[Paul] A lot of them were underbaked
and underproved,
which is sad,
because five hours is a long time.
But I think there's a couple of people
in line for Star Baker.
-I think Dan.
-[Sandi] He's our steady man, isn't he?
-He is.
-And Rahul.
-Rahul.
-Who thinks he can't do anything
but he's a really, really good baker.
I've never met anyone like Rahul.
-No.
-He's like an enigma.
[Sandi] Well, Jon certainly did not have
a good showstopper.
Strange was he did so well
with the Technical, he came second.
I mean likewise,
when you're looking at Terry,
who won the Technical,
he was doing quite well
and his Showstopper was terrible.
I cannot stop thinking
about the flavours of Ruby's.
Yet again, it seems to me,
she's saved herself.
She was in serious trouble
coming into today
but to smash it out the park again
with that showstopper.
You said perfection.
I know.
But unfortunately,
it leaves a couple of people
who really let themselves down today.
One was Briony. Overall, I think Briony
struggled over the three challenges.
Certainly, Antony. Flavours didn't work.
Texture wasn't good.
-The zip line was good.
-Yes.
The zip line was good.
Yeah, I think there's not enough
with the bread really.
-No?
-No.
Well, bakers,
what a bread fuelled weekend.
Well done for surviving.
I've got the great job of announcing
this week's Star Baker.
It's someone that the judges' thought
was fantastic throughout.
And someone who showed a lot of swagger
in the showstopper.
The Star Baker this week is...
Rahul.
[cheering]
-Well done.
-I'm gonna kill him.
So, that means I get the horrible job.
I'm afraid we do have to say goodbye
to somebody and that person is...
Come on. Just say it.
Antony.
I'm so sorry.
Oh, sorry, sweetheart.
[Antony] Too soon. Leaving too soon
but I don't think I'll stop smiling
'cause you know what?
This is for me,
the best opportunity ever.
-Come on, ladies. Come on.
-Come on, bring it in.
[Antony] I've met
some of the most amazing people,
so I'm smiling 'cause, you know what,
this isn't sad. [chuckles]
These are just happy tears
I'm leaving but still happy tears.
Yeah. Ah, God.
-Goodbye. Good luck.
-Thank you so much.
[Paul] It's very sad
'cause he's a good baker
and I'm sure he'll carry on baking
but unfortunately you can't afford
to have a bad week
and Antony had to go.
Yes, Rahul. Two weeks in a row, man.
It is so surreal.
I mean, I still can't believe it.
I just keep pinching myself. "Is it real?"
Now I think I can bake.
[Prue] When he put his showstopper down,
it really was a showstopper.
It took your breath away.
And it's his birthday on Monday.
-Is it?
-Yes.
There's another birthday present
for you then.
[Rahul] Yeah, thank you.
Rahul is getting stronger and stronger.
When you look at the showstopper,
it was baked beautifully
and the flavours were all there, too.
He ticked every single box.
-We've never had this before...
-[Sandi] Smiling.
...where someone saves themself twice now
in their Showstopper.
I'm like the cat with nine lives.
Oh, my God.
Yeah, I need to get my act together
next week. [laughs]
I cannot deal with that stress again.